1.What is program?
->it is a set of instruction 

real world: 
ex-
give me your phone 

in industry:
ex-command to your computer to start notepad

2.What is programming ?
->to create a program

real world:
ex-pass his phone 

in industry:
we are doing proramming using mouse & keybord

3. What is progarmming language ?
->A programming language is a way for programmers to communicate with computers.

real world:
We normally use to communicate with eachother in our mothertongue like hindi,gujarati it's called language 

in industry:
when programmers are communicate with computers  its called programming lanuage like python,java,php .....  
 
4.Types programming language?
there are many types of programmig language 
->low-level & high-level

low-level

Machine Language
Machine Language is hard to understand human beacause its binary (0&1)only CPU can understand this
ex-when baby was just try to speak no one can understand ....

Assembly Language
assembly language is second genration lenguage it can understand optration like ADD(addition)........
ex-when baby was speak a just some world like maa paa ...

high-level
Programming languages that are the most similar to the language (English) spoken by humans are known as high-level languages

a.OOP
->when language work on object base it called object-oriented programming 
ex-C++

b.POP
->when language work on Procedural base it called Procedural-oriented programming
ex-C

c. Logical Programming
ex-Prolog Language

d.Functional Programming
ex-Python Language

5.WWW-World Wide Web ?
->all the public websites or pages that users can access on their local computers and other devices through the internet

->user can access website or page by using phone,leptop...

ex-nest 
if i'm a bird (internet) and nest (www) if i wwant a access of nest then it's necessary to be a bird  
->like i want to access some website or page so internet connection is necessary 
 
6.How internet Works ?
->Internet works using protocols like http/https .......
 
->using internet we can communicate with our friends who live on along the world 

->oldest way to communicate using internet is email 

ex- every society are working based on rules so our internet is also work on rules 

7.network layers on client & server ?
->

		 Laptop
		   |
		   |
		   |
		   v 
Tab<---------	internet  --------->mobile
		   ^
		   |
		   |
		   PC	
internet also known as host
 
Client-	client always send a request on internet with the help of browser 
> client sometime active 
Server - server always respond with the help of browser
>server always active

ex- if i'm going to hotel i'm requesting to kitchen with the help of waiter and kitchen respond me with the  help of waiter 

8. Protocols ?
-> a protocol is a set of rules 
ex- in english first letter must be capital (Who Are You !!)
In adani society that's a rule everyone must regiter their names first 

there are so many rules like 
1.HTTP - Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTPS - Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
2. FTP(File Transfer protocols)
3. Email Protocols(POP3,SMTP)
4. TCP(Transmission control protocol) and UDP(User Datagram Protocol)


9.Software Applications and its types?
software->that things we can only see and use not touch
software make user life easy 

ex- video call we can see our friend over the world 

->it is a type of software app that hepls in the automation of task based on the user input

->software application makes user life easy 
real world:
we are using lift instead of stairs 
in industry:
ex-calculator all possible calculation calculate within the Sec 

there are many types of software appliction 
a.Application Software
ex-Microsoft Office, Paint, Powerpoint ...

b.System Software
ex-Notepad ,Calculator ...

c.Driver Software
ex-Audio Driver,Video Driver ...

d.Middleware
ex-database middleware,application server middleware ..

e.Program m ing Software
ex-vscode, Turbo C ...

->all software are made by user requriment 

10.Software Architecture?
->Software architecture is the blueprint of building software.
ex-if builder build building he was ready his flow same as devloper will show his flow tp client 

there are many layers software architecture
1.Presentation layer
in this layer devloper create a UI how website look like phone view , pc view ...

2.Application layer
in this layer devloper devlop the site or app using code

3.Business layer
in this layer company buy their domin ....

4.Persistence layer
in this layer we decided which functionality who can use this 

5. Database layer
in this layer we can decide which data store where using their functionality 

11. Software Environment?
->In Software Environment we decide the steps how we will make website or app 
ex-if i want to go somewhere i analysis the price & days and more 
then i'll book a flight & room etc..
then go to airpot and that way i was decided
then go there and enjoy
then come back that's th full palne

1. The analysis and design environment
in this layer we analyasis the demand of the web or app and the work on design of web or app

2. The development environment
in this layer is devlopment layer on this devloper made the web or app using code we can provide them a tools and many more 

3. The common build environment
in this layer we can provide a space to delopers 

4. The testing environment
in this layer after made a web or app go to software tester if some correction then is come back to devloper for add that 

5. The production environment
in this layer we are host our websit or app

12.Types of internet connections?
->internet connections is like how many ways to get internet 

ex- we are drive a bike in many ways by using one hand two hand without using hand in the end we are drive a bike same as 
we are using internet in many ways like

1. Digital subscriber line(DSL)
2. Cable Internet
3. Fiber Optic
4. Satellite Internet
5. Wireless
6. Broadband over Power lines(BPL) 

13.Source code?
->source code is like how we dress up 
->in programming our source code judge us how clean is and how sharpe is how many short tecnique are you use

ex- if you want to go for a date how yoy are dress up  

14.github?
->git hub is like cold storage where we can put our potato  
we can store our code on git hub so using that username anyone can show your code 

